Dengue fever may sometimes develop into more dangerous forms such as dengue hemorrhagic fever or dengue shock syndrome, which may lead to the development of life-threatening symptoms.Some of the complications caused by the disease include:

1.Severe dehydration.

2.Continuous bleeding.

3.Low platelets, due to which clotting of blood doesn't occur.

4.Blood pressure may go dangerously low.

5.Bradycardia (heart beating less than 60 counts per minute).

6.Damage to the brain due to bleeding, seizures or encephalitis.

7.Damage to the immune system.

8.Enlargement of liver and liver damage.

Continue your medical care:
Stay in contact with your doctor and report any changes you may experience as you recover from dengue fever,or if symptoms recur or worsen.

Your doctor will know how to intervene should your condition deteriorate into either dengue hemorrhagic fever or dengue shock syndrome.

Watch closely for persistent symptoms:
If symptoms persist beyond seven days, involve problems with continued vomiting, vomiting up blood, severe abdominal pain, difficulty breathing, purplish areas under the skin similar to bruises, and continued problems with nosebleeds or bleeding gums, then your baby should seek immediate medical attention.

1.You may be developing dengue hemorrhagic fever, which is a serious and life-threatening medical condition.

2.If you develop those symptoms, then you are in a 24 to 48 hour window where your capillaries, which are the tiniest blood vessels in body, become more permeable, or leak.

3.The leaky capillaries allow fluid to leak from your blood vessels and accumulate in baby chest and abdominal cavity, causing conditions medically termed as ascites and pleural effusions.

4.Your body is experiencing circulatory system failure which leads to shock. If not immediately reversed, death is likely.

Seek emergency medical attention:
If you are showing any signs of dengue hemorrhagic fever or dengue shock syndrome, then you need immediate hospitalization and medical attention. This condition is life-threatening.

1.Call doctor or get medical help the fastest way possible. This is a medical emergency.

2.Dengue shock syndrome is recognized by early symptoms that include a decrease in appetite, continued fever, continued vomiting, and persistent symptoms associated with dengue fever. The maximum risk of shock is between the third and seventh day of illness.

3.If left untreated, internal hemorrhaging will continue. Symptoms of hemorrhaging include bleeding under the skin, persistent bruising and purplish rashes, worsening of symptoms, abnormal bleeding, cold and clammy arms and legs, and sweating.

4.Symptoms like this indicate the person is in, or will quickly be in, a state of medical shock.

5.Dengue shock syndrome can be fatal. If the person survives, they may experience brain disease, loss of brain function, liver brain disease, loss of brain function, liver damage, or seizures.

6.Treatment for dengue shock syndrome will include controlling the loss of blood, fluid replacement, attempts to establish a normal blood pressure, oxygen, and possibly a transfusion to restore platelets and provide fresh blood to vital organs.