Stay in air-conditioned or well-screened housing:
The mosquitoes that carry the dengue viruses are most active from dawn to dusk, but they can also bite at night.

Wear protective clothing:
When you go into mosquito-infested areas, wear a long-sleeved shirt, long pants, socks and shoes.

Use mosquito repellent:
DEET IN,N-diethylmetatoluamidel blocks a mosquito's ability to find people who've applied it. Apply repellent with a 10% to 30% concentration of DEET to your skin and clothing. Choose the concentration based on the hours of protection you need the higher the concentration of DEET, the longer you are protected. A 10% concentration protects you for about two hours. Keep in mind that chemical repellents can be toxic, and use only the amount needed for the time you'll be outdoors. Don't use DEET on the hands of young children or on infants younger than age 2 months.

Picaridin. This repellant, also called KBR 3023, offers protection that's comparable to DEET at similar concentrations. It also blocks a mosquito's ability to find people who've applied it. Picaridin is nearly odorless, which may make it a good alternative if you're sensitive to the smells of insect repellents.

Oil of lemon eucalyptus. This plant-based chemical may offer protection that's comparable to low concentrations of DEET. Don't use this product on children younger than 3 years.

Others. Shorter acting repellents that may offer limited protection generally contain plant-based vils such as vil of geranium, cedar, lemon grass, soy or citronella.

Use a mosquito net:
Use a bed net if the area where you are sleeping is exposed to the outdoors.

Smell:
Avoid wearing heavily scented svaps and perfumes as these are known to attract mosquitoes.

Stagnant water:
The Aedes mosquito prefers to breed in clean, stagnant water. It is important to frequently check and remove stagnant

water in your homelpremises. Here are some tips for this:
1.Turn buckets and watering cans over; store them under shelter so water cannot accumulate in them.

2.Remove the water from plant pot plates. To remove mosquito eggs, clean and scrub them thoroughly.

3.Loosen soil from potted plants. This will prevent puddles from developing on the surface of hard svil.

4.Make sure scupper drains are not blocked; do not place potted plants and other objects over the scupper drain.

5.Gully traps that are rarely used should be covered; replace gully traps with non-perforated ones, and install anti-mosquito valves.

6.Do not place receptacles under or on top of any air-conditioning unit.

7.Flower vases - change the water every other day and scrub the inside of the vase thoroughly and rinse it out.

8.Leaves make sure leaves are not blocking anything that may result in the accumulation of puddles or stagnant water.