Dengue fever is caused by any one of four dengue viruses spread by mosquitoes that thrive in and near human lodgings. When a mosquito bites a person infected with a dengue virus, the virus enters the mosquito. When the infected mosquito then bites another person, the virus enters that person's bloodstream.

After you've recovered from dengue fever, you have immunity to the virus that infected you but not to the other three dengue fever viruses. The risk of developing severe dengue fever, also known as dengue hemorrhagic fever, actually increases if you're infected a second, third or fourth time.

Dengue Virus Life Cycle:
As holometabolous insect it is also denoted with Aedes aegypti hence this insect completes a cycle of thorough transformation starting from an egg to larvae to pupae and finally stage of adulthood. Environmental conditions matter the most for the adult life span which usually ranges from even two weeks to thirty days and so on.Usually one-and-a-half to three week time frame is considered the Aedes aegypti lifecycle.

Living or traveling in tropical areas:
Being in tropical and subtropical areas increases your risk of exposure to the virus that causes dengue fever. Especially high-risk areas are Southeast Asia, the western Pacific islands,Latin America and the Caribbean.

Prior infection with a dengue fever virus:
Previous infection with a dengue fever virus increases your risk of having severe symptoms if you're infected again.

Dengue fever facts:
Dengue fever is a disease caused by a family of viruses that are transmitted by mosquitoes.

Symptoms of dengue fever include severe joint and muscle pain, swollen lymph nodes, headache, fever, exhaustion, and rash. The presence of fever, rash, and headache (the dengue triad) is characteristic of dengue fever.

Dengue is prevalent throughout the tropics and subtropics.

Dengue fever is caused by a virus, and there is no specific medicine or antibiotic to treat it.For typical dengue fever, the treatment is directed toward relief of the symptoms (symptomatic treatment).

The acute phase of the illness with fever and muscle pain lasts about one to two weeks.

Dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) is a specific syndrome that tends to affect children under 10 years of age.This complication of dengue causes abdominal pain, hemorrhage (bleeding), and circulatory collapse (shock).

The prevention of dengue fever requires control or eradication of the mosquitoes carrying the virus that causes dengue.