Dengue has some flu-like symptoms but it shouldn't be confused with flu.Young children and people who have never experienced infection may have a milder illness than older children and adults. Symptoms of Dengue include severe pain of the joints and muscles, high fever, swelling of lymph nodes,severe exhaustion and rashes. The "Dengue triad" is a good way to spot the disease.The triad is a combination of fever, rashes and headache. This is characteristic of Dengue fever.The acute phase of the illness causes extreme muscle pains and high fevers.These may last up to two weeks.

A particular syndrome of the illness called Dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) usually affects children younger than 10 years. This is a complicated form of the disease and handling it is highly tricky.It causes abdominal pain, hemorrhage linternal bleeding) and circulatory collapse Ishock).This complication of dengue causes abdominal pain, hemorrhage (bleeding), and circulatory collapse (shock).

There are various symptoms which characterize the dengue fever. They are as follows:

1.Sudden onset of the fever.

2.Body temperature lie between 39.5-41.4 C.

3.Fever is remaining for 1-7 days but start faded after 2-3 days.

Fever start with the secondary stage of skin rashes which is not common as normal rashes.


Headaches:

The symptom of dengue fever is that it usually is accompanied by severe headache mostly in the back portion of the eyes and at the front portion of the head.

Muscular (Myalgia) or Bone Pain:

1.After the sudden onset of the dengue fever.

2.Pain in the joints of the body especially in knees and elbow.

3.Severe attack of pain after the onset of fever.

4.Pain remains for many weeks in spite of fever getting subsided.

5.In the case of DSS and DHF the pain is missing.

Other symptoms of dengue fever are as follows:

1.Vomiting and also there is chances of Nausea.

2.Appetite loses.

3.Sudden change in taste of victim.

4.There is an increment in the touch as it become sensitive.

These symptoms are more in adults than children. These symptoms are milder in the case of the children who are prone to dengue fever.

Rash-Red and White Patchy Rashes:
The illness for the dengue fever is somewhat similar to the disease of Rubella, Influenza or Measles.

Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever / Dengue Shock Syndrome:
Initial stage of the fever shows the signs and symbols for dengue fever but the fever start decreasing after the time period of 2-7 days and left the certain symptoms and signs which are as follows:

1.Feeling of Restlessness.

Symptoms of circulatory failure:

Bleeding or manifestations of hemorrhagic including the various points which are as follows:

1.The skin start bleeding which appears like red patches which looks blotchy known as Petechiae.

2.Bleeding gets stared from nose and even from Epitasis.

3.Gums start bleeding too.

4.Blood platelets start decreasing in numbers.
The blood concentration starts increasing after the leaking of plasma from the vascular compartment in the human body and even causes shock which is manifestation in nature.

These are the early symptoms, if they are not cured properly, it may cause DSS fever. It is the fever if not properly treated causes manifestation of shock and even in some cases lead to death.

The signs which act as the warning for Dengue Shock Syndrome are as follows:

Abdominal pain which is severe.

1.Vomiting.

2.Body temperature start changing.

3.Irritation in the nature of the person.

