Dengue fever is a disease caused by a family of viruses transmitted by mosquitoes.It is transmitted by female Aedes mosquitoes.There are four distinct stereotypes of Dengue virus-DEN 1, DEN 2, DEN 3 and DEN 4-that cause the fever.It is an acute illness of sudden onset that usually follows a benign course with symptoms such as headache, fever, exhaustion, severe muscle and joint pain, swollen lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy), and rash.The presence of fever, itchy rash, and headache is characteristic of dengue.Other signs of dengue fever include bleeding gums, severe pain behind the eyes, and red palms and soles.


Dengue (pronounced DENG-gay) can affect anyone but tends to be more severe in people with compromised immune systems.Because it is caused by one of five serotypes of the dengue virus, it is possible to get dengue fever multiple times.However, an attack of dengue produces immunity for a lifetime to that particular viral serotype to which the patient was exposed.

Dengue goes by other names, including breakbone fever or dandy fever.Victims of dengue often have contortions due to the intense pain in the joints, muscles, and bones, hence the name break bone fever.

How Dengue fever spreads?

Dengue fever is a mosquito borne disease spread by the Aedes Aegypti and Aedes Albopictus species of mosquito. These dengue carrying mosquitoes typically bite at dusk and dawn, however they may bite at any time of the day and spread the infection. A mosquito gets infected by sucking the blood of a person already infected with the dengue virus. The mosquito then gets infected within the first 2-10 days of having the infected blood meal with the virus lining the mosquito's gut. After about 8-10 days later the infection spreads to the other parts of the mosquito's body including the salivary gland that they use to feed on human blood.

When the infected mosquito bites a human, victim gets infected as the virus in the mosquito's body gets released in the human blood stream along with the saliva. Once inside the human body the virus attaches itself to the white blood cells in the body and replicates itself to cause dengue. Once infected with dengue, the mosquito remains infected for life without the virus having any effect on the mosquito.Dengue can be transmitted through blood transfusions and organ transfusion.